What happens when you initialize a repository? Why do you need to do it?

git creates a .git repository but puts nothing in it yet, that way when you save a commit you can leave your own commit note. you need to initialise one so you have a repository in the first place.





How is the staging area different from the working directory and the repository? What value do you think it offers?

the staging area is an inbetween area. the working directory is like the regular file folder which has your files. the repository is where git stores all the commits. you can put files into the staging area from the working area and then when you're happy you can make a commit of them and stuff them in the repository in one go. sort of like loading a hopper before dropping it into the furnice.




How can you use the staging area to make sure you have one commit per logical change?

you can used git diff with no arguments to compare the working directory and the staging area. if you run git diff --staged you can check the repository with the staging area, using these two you can see if there are more that one changes in the staging area and the repository before you commit.




What are some situations when branches would be helpful in keeping your history organized? How would branches help?

branches would be useful when the project you are working on can branch i.e. make an experimental feature you're not sure you will you or seasonal theam. or writing it in german etc.




How do the diagrams help you visualize the branch structure?

its easier to visualise how branches diverge away from each other and the parent that they both share. you can also use it to see the braches which you cannot reach in your git log
you can use the codes 

git log --graph --oneline 

master coins to show a visualisation of them





What is the result of merging two branches together? Why do we represent it in the diagram the way we do?

it picks the files added and removed compared to the nearst parent of the two branches before they diverged from each other if me and bob both worked on different branches and bob decided to remove a few lines and I added some and tghen removed others, I knows we've made a concious effort to add / remove them from compared to the original and it will keep these changes in the merged branch at the end






What are the pros and cons of Git’s automatic merging vs. always doing merges manually?

git automatic merging takes the headache out of sifting through files. if me and a buddy are both working on the same set of files and we both decide to delete the same one then it is not needed in the final merge, if I add one then it will be needed. If we both work on the same one and change it slightly differently then it will ask me to read through it to work out which changes I will need to keep, it can't easily work this out itself. i.e. game.js has conflicts so I open it and it I can search for a few >>>> <<<<< |||||| symbols highlighting the area of the current branch the original parent we were both working on and the other brach we are merging with, after editing out these differences and removing the ones I don't need I can then commit to complete the merge. (uncomment out the bit talking about the conflict as it's useful to have as a note.)







